Sohil Sampat: Background

I believe I have quite an interesting background especially when talking about
where I’m from. I always have a tough time answer the question, “Where are you
from?” The reason being, I was born in India where I spent maybe the first two
years of my life, then moved and grew up in Thailand. I stayed there for a good
15 years, as my father got a job there. However, in spite of being there so
long, I was not considered a citizen due to visa conflicts. I attended one
school for 13 years, Ekamai International School. It was where I went for
elementary, middle, and high school. The curriculum was american-based and so I
had a good exposure to learning English and how the education system worked.
Thirteen years in the same school gifted me with some life long friends whom I
still keep in touch with, though I’m on the other side of the world now. It was
absolutely amazing growing up in such a beautiful country filled with really
humble people. I’m quite certain it’s because of how others were, that I’ve
grown to be who I am today, somewhat humble. After having spent so much time in
Bangkok, it was time for graduation and I had to make the decision of whether to
stay and continue my education or to leave to another country. The decision was
nerve-wracking! Leaving parents, not having a constant money supply, living on
my own in a new country, and dealing with so many new things was a scary
thought. Nonetheless, I’m glad I made the right decision and decided to pursue a
mechanical engineering degree in the States.

“Wow! This is just like the movies!” is how I reacted to everything I saw when I
stepped onto US soil. I was situated in the Chicago Suburbs, Glen Ellyn, where I
attended college at the College of DuPage. I will forever be grateful to how
amazing COD is and will always recommended it to anyone looking to obtain
education for a cheaper price than universities. The campus is B-E-A-utiful! I
had classes with some of the best professors of the college and was extremely
satisfied for the education I received. As an international student, I had to
rent out an apartment close to the college before flying into the States. As it
was the first time, it was obviously scary for a 17 year old to figure out how
to deal with the apartment lease, but things worked out as they always do. I
remember the first year here was maybe one of the most adventurous years of my
life. I had to find ways to buy groceries without a car, study at home without a
table, sleep on an air mattress (didn’t want to buy a bed), cook, and basically
manage everything in my life. It wasn’t tough, but rather quite fun to have so
many new things to deal with. There certainly were times where it felt lonely to
be in a country so far from where my parents were, but I always found ways to
deal with it. I learned how to handle my emotions like stress, sadness,
loneliness, and happiness. I spent a good three years at COD, where I met some
amazing people whom I wish I was still in contact with. The amazing folks
welcomed and taught me a lot about how things worked here. Life was great, but
time caught on and I had to continue moving forward. COD was not a 4-year
institution and therefore didn’t hand out bachelor degrees but only associates.
When I was done with my Associates in Mechanical Engineering at COD, I decided
to transfer to Illinois Institute of Technology. 
